# hist3000-week4

## Module 1 Consolidation

As the first unit of the course draws to a close, my brain has been wracked trying to compile and process everything I've learned and experienced so far. This class has had a notably different structure from most university courses, a fact that at first made me uneasy. As I made frequent mention of in my week 1 repository, I was nervous with the shift to digital learning, as I'm sure many students were, and didn't immediately grasp the way this class was going to be structured / run. Within the ODATE, I was specifically offput by the discussions about what digital archaeology really was, and the disconect between tools and theory in teaching. Initially, I was overwhelmed. It wasn't until after we had worked through most of the module that I began to really appreciate what I assumed to be the flow of the course; It was about connecting our experiences with the simultaneous readings, and learning through doing. Most importantly of all, it was about learning through our failures.

## Failing Productively

The process of "failing gloriously", presented early on by Dr. Graham and really driven home, was not a difficult thing for me to grasp. I like to think that I have always engaged with my failures productively in the past, but this course has made me engage with this idea on a much deeper level. The analysis of my failures has become increasingly more analytical as the course has progressed; Rather than a superficial assesment of what worked and what didnt, I have began to engage with _why_ things didn't work, identfying the roots of any failures, and discussing what this failure means in the long run.

Additionally, productive failing has a greater impact in an academic sense. One must be careful to engage with and respond to their failures attentively and carefully, and while learning from them, there is always the possibility that an academic failure has a negative impact on communities related to the academic work / failure. Using the Graveyard Project as an example, I encountered some minor failures; Prominently, I consider the limitations of the KoBoToolBox form to be a type of failure in accurately gathering data about the graveyard. In certain instances, there was not an obvious entry for the form, and I ended up leaving some information empty. While I learned about and engaged with the toolbox in a constructive way that I plan to carry through to module 2, it's important to remember that the data I am generating matters. The fact that I chose the 10 headstones I did out of the 80-odd total monuments at the site has a specific impact on how that dat will eventually be represented, and how the story of this graveyard will be told or remembered.

## Digital Ethics

The constant theme within the course of questioning our ethical roles and responsibilities was a somewhat difficult point for me to grapple with. Being a newly-introduced student with no experience in archaeology, digital or not, the questions seemed beyond my scope. I held the assumption that digital archaeology was just archaeology done with computers, and that the basic ethical codes of an old discipline such as archaeology would persist within the digital sphere. It was Meghan Dennis's article that really galvanized my conceptions of ethics within archaeology, especialy in the specific examples Dennis gave of ethical quandries within archaeology and the sub-discipline of digital archaeology. 

I've always had difficulty understanding ideas within the digital sphere; I'm a very hands-on, analog learner. Grappling with the ideas of ethical questions, and almost feeling as though it was the role of us a students to figure out _the_ ethical code for digital archaeologists, left my head spinning. As Dennis put it, we are the "first potentially wholly digital generation of archaeologists".

The idea that really stuck out to me here came from a review of Dr. Graham's feedback for week 2; Specifically, he mentioned in his email the idea of "nothing bad has ever happened to me, so I don't see what the big deal is". This lead me to understand how we as digital archaeologists must look beyond our perception, and broaden our scope to understand any possible ethical dangers, not just to us but to communities that are attached to our research.

## Collaberation

By the far, the biggest 'win' that I consider from module 1 is my increased understanding of how collaborative digital archaeology is, and how to be a better collaberater. Between Robyn Lacy's discussions of archaeological engagement and discussion with the public, the existance of the class Discord server, and the use of hypothes.is, my understanding of what collaberative work is and how to be a collaberator has improved. At the start of the term, I was unsure to what level "digital collaberation" applied, and what our expectations were surrounding collaberation. However, being able to openly engage with the class in an online enviorment like Discord has not only made my learning experience much easier and more enjoyable, it has also broaded my opinion of collaberation within archaeology itself.

Touching back upon Lacy's article, it was specifically here that I appreciated the reach of collaberation; Not only is archaeology as a field reliant on the colaberation of researchers, but open dialogue with the public, and engagement over archaeological questions. 
